# ECE-655-Protocols-Software-and-Issues-in-Mobile-Systems
Fall - 2021

**Abstract of our paper**
The 5G network is planned to serve a high quantity of mobile data traffic and a significant number of wireless connections while improving communication delay, reliability, and security. Applications such as autonomous cars, remote surgery, augmented/virtual reality games demand an increase in data rates. Millimeter-wave (mmWave) is one of the critical innovations to get a better data rate in 5G communications. It is the under-utilized spectrum and is now used for 5G networks and beyond. But there are challenges with mmWaves as they are prone to high path loss, susceptible to blockages, and fading. Several cellular networks, base stations are required at very short distances to maintain the communication. There are several techniques proposed to mitigate the challenges. As we advance, Massive MIMO combined with beamforming will play a key role in 5G communication and is now a primary research area. Using beamforming, wireless signals can focus on a targeted device instead of spreading from a broadcast antenna in all directions. This will result in a stable, faster, and reliable connection. Fine beam alignment between user and antenna is very crucial for initial access and needs to be maintained owing to the channel fading and user mobility. This paper reviews classification of beamforming that includes analog, digital, and hybrid in detail and their applications in real-time. Also, this paper aims to study various beamforming methods, analyze challenges and identify the best-suited techniques that can be employed in massive MIMO frameworks.

_These are my personal/group contributions. Please **do not** copy my solutions for academic purposes!!_
